# Historical Weather Trends and Retirement

This project is exploring weather trends including percipitation and temperature to see which counties in the United States are best for retirement. 

## Contents
This repository contains instructions on obtaining and cleaning the data used, code that completes and creates time series visualizations, and licensing and reference information.

# Software and Platform

This projected was completed using the R and python programming languages. For R, we used RStudio and for Python, we used VS Code and Google Colab. The platform used was Mac. If using VS Code to reproduce results, a Python kernel will need to be used in order to use Python and import the packages used in the scripts.

# Documentation

Contents of this repository include:

- README.md: a file containing all information about the files within the repository
- LICENSE.md: a file citing the terms under which this repository may be used and cited
- DATA folder: a folder containing the following 7 files
  - Data Appendix: a file describing the final dataset and its variables
  - Data Acquisition.pdf: a pdf file detailing how to obtain and clean the data
  - NOAA_State.txt: a dataset from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration with the 50 US states
  - US_FIPS.csv: a dataset with each county in each state with a state and county FIPS code
  - climdiv_county_year.csv:
  - full_best_places_to_retire.csv: a dataset from WalletHub with the 40 best cities to retire in
  - state.txt: a dataset with state abreviation, state name, and national standard code
- OUTPUT folder: a folder with all of the outputs generated by this project
  - plots(1).pdf: a pdf containing the outputs generated by this project
- SCRIPTS folder:
  - analysis.ipynb: a file conducting our analysis
  - average_temp_US.R: a file finding the average temparute in the US excluding Alaska

# Reproducing Results

In order to reproduce the results of this study, first read and follow the instructions in the Data Acquisition pdf located in the DATA folder. Output the resulting dataset onto your device. Then read the resulting dataset into the analysis.ipynb file and run the file to complete the analysis

# References

[1] A. McCann, “Best & Worst Places to Retire in 2024,” WalletHub, Sep. 03, 2024. https://wallethub.com/edu/best-places-to-retire/6165 (accessed Oct. 12, 2024).

‌[2] “Index of /pub/data/cirs/climdiv,” www.ncei.noaa.gov. https://www.ncei.noaa.gov/pub/data/cirs/climdiv/ (accessed Oct. 2024)

[3] washingtonpost, “Climate change in the contiguous United States,” GitHub, Jul. 24, 2022. https://github.com/washingtonpost/data-2C-beyond-the-limit-usa/

[4]“Where Retirees Are Moving – 2023 Study,” smartasset.com. https://smartasset.com/data-studies/where-retirees-are-moving-2023
